.TH FBI 1 "(c) 1998-2012 Gerd Hoffmann" "FBI 2.09" "Linux framebuffer imageviewer"
\#
\#
.SH NAME
fbi - Linux framebuffer imageviewer
\#
\#
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBfbi\fP [\fIoptions\fP] \fIfile ...\fP
\#
\#
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR Fbi
displays the specified file(s) on the linux console using the framebuffer
device. \fIPhotoCD\fP, \fIjpeg\fP, \fIppm\fP, \fIgif\fP, \fItiff\fP, \fIxpm\fP, \fIxwd\fP,
\fIbmp\fP, \fIpng\fP and \fIwebp\fP formats are supported natively. For other
.BR fbi
tries to use
.BR "ImageMagick" "(1)\'s"
.BR "convert" "(1)."
\#
\#
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
Print usage info.
.TP
.B -V, --version
Print \fBfbi\fP version number.
.TP
.B --store
Write command line arguments to config file \fI~/.fbirc\fP.
.TP
.BI "-l" "\ file" ", --list" "\ file"
Read image filelist from \fIfile\fP.
.TP
.B -P, --text
Enable textreading mode. In this mode
.BR fbi
will display large images without vertical offset (default is to center the
images). The \fBSPACE\fP command will first try to scroll down and go to the
next image only if it is already on the bottom of the page. Useful if the images
you are watching are text pages, all you have to do to get the next piece of
text is to press space...
.TP
.B -a, --autozoom
Enable autozoom.
.BR Fbi
will automagically pick a reasonable zoom factor when loading a new image.
.TP
.B --(no)autoup
Like autozoom, but scale up only.
.TP
.B --(no)autodown
Like autozoom, but scale down only.
.TP
.B --(no)fitwidth
Use width only for autoscaling.
.TP
.B -v, --(no)verbose
Be verbose: enable status line on the bottom of the screen (enabled by
default).
.TP
.B -u, --(no)random
Randomize the order of the filenames.
.TP
.B --(no)comments
Display comment tags (if present) instead of the filename. Probably only useful
if you added reasonable comments yourself (using
.BR "wrjpgcom" "(1)"
for example), otherwise you likely just find texts pointing to the software
which created the image.
.TP
.B -e, --(no)edit
Enable editing commands.
.TP
.B --(no)backup
Create backup files (when editing images).
.TP
.B -p, --(no)preserve
Preserve timestamps (when editing images).
.TP
.B --(no)readahead
Read ahead images into cache.
.TP
.BI "--cachemem" "\ size"
Image cache \fIsize\fP in megabytes (default is 256).
.TP
.BI "--blend" "\ time"
Image blend \fItime\fP in miliseconds.
.TP
.BI "-T" "\ n" ", --vt" "\ n"
Start on virtual console \fIn\fP.
.TP
.BI "-s" "\ steps" ", --scroll" "\ steps"
Set scroll \fIsteps\fP in pixels (default is 50).
.TP
.BI "-t" "\ sec" ", --timeout" "\ sec"
Start a continuous slideshow where each image is loaded at \fIsec\fP second
intervals without any keypress.
.TP
.B -1, --(no)once
Don't loop (only use with \fB-t\fP).
.TP
.BI "-r" "\ n" ", --resolution" "\ n"
Select resolution, \fIn = 1..5\fP (default is 3, only \fIPhotoCD\fP).
.TP
.BI "-g" "\ n" ", --gamma" "\ n"
Gamma correction. Requires \fIPseudocolor\fP or \fIDirectcolor\fP visual,
doesn't work for \fITruecolor\fP (default is 1).
.TP
.BI "-f" "\ <arg>" ", --font" "\ <arg>"
Set font. This \fI<arg>\fP can be anything fontconfig accepts (see
.BR "fonts\-conf" "(5))."
Try
.BR "fc\-list" "(1)"
for a list of known fonts on your system. The fontconfig config file is
evaluated as well, so any generic stuff defined there (such as mono, sans) will
work as well. It is recommended to use monospaced fonts, the textboxes (help
text, exif info) look better then.
.TP
.BI "-d" "\ /dev/fbN" ", --device" "\ /dev/fbN"
Use \fI/dev/fbN\fP device framebuffer. Default is the one your virtual console
is mapped to.
.TP
.BI "-m" "\ videomode" ", --mode" "\ videomode"
Name of the video mode to use (video mode must be listed in
\fI/etc/fb.modes\fP). Default is not to change the video mode.
\#
\#
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.BR Fbi
uses the following environment variables:
.TP
.BR FBGAMMA
This variable may be used to specify a default gamma correction.
\#
\#
.SH "COMMAND USAGE"
The commands take effect immediately; it is not necessary to type a carriage
return.
.PP
In the following commands, \fIi\fP is a numerical argument.
.SS Scrolling
.TP
\fBLEFT_ARROW\fP, \fBRIGHT_ARROW\fP, \fBUP_ARROW\fP, \fBDOWN_ARROW\fP
Scroll large images.
.TP
\fBPREV_SCREEN\fP, \fBk\fP
Previous image.
.TP
\fBNEXT_SCREEN\fP, \fBSPACE\fP, \fBj\fP
Next image.
.TP
\fIi\fP\fBg\fP
Jump to image #\fIi\fP.
.TP
\fBRETURN\fP
Write the filename of the current image to
.BR "stdout" "(3),"
then go to the next image.
.P
The \fBRETURN\fP vs. \fBSPACE\fP key thing can be used to create a file list
while reviewing the images and use the list for batch processing later on:
.P
.in +4n
\fIfbi\ file1.gif\ file2.jpg\ file3.jpg >\ fileimagelist.lst\fP
.in
.P
.in +4n
some \fBRETURN\fP and \fBSPACE\fP...
.P
.in +4n
\fIfbi\ -l\ fileimagelist.lst\fP
.in
.SS Zoom
.TP
\fBa\fP
Autozoom.
.TP
\fB+\fP
In.
.TP
\fB-\fP
Out.
.TP
\fIi\fP\fBs\fP
Set zoom to \fIi\fP%.
.SS Other
.TP
\fBESQ\fP, \fBq\fP
Quit.
.TP
\fBv\fP
Toggle status line.
.TP
\fBh\fP
Display textbox with brief help.
.TP
\fBi\fP
Display textbox with some \fIEXIF\fP info.
.TP
\fBp\fP
Pause the slideshow (if started with \fB-t\fP, toggle).
.SS Edit mode
.BR Fbi
also provides some very basic image editing facilities. You have to
start
.BR fbi
with the \fI-e\fP switch to use them.
.TP
\fBD\fP, \fBShift+d\fP
Delete image.
.TP
\fBr\fP
Rotate 90 degrees clockwise.
.TP
\fBl\fP
Rotate 90 degrees counter-clock wise.
.TP
\fBx\fP
Mirror image vertically (top / bottom).
.TP
\fBy\fP
Mirror image horizontally (left to right).
.P
The delete function actually wants a capital letter \fBD\fP, thus you have to type
\fBShift+d\fP. This is done to avoid deleting images by mistake because there
are no safety bells: If you ask
.BR fbi
to delete the image, it will be deleted without questions asked.
.P
The rotate function actually works for \fIJPEG\fP images only. It does a
lossless transformation of the image.
\#
\#
.SH BUGS
.BR Fbi
needs rw access to the framebuffer devices (\fI/dev/fbN\fP), i.e you (our your
admin) have to make sure
.BR fbi
can open the devices in rw mode. The IMHO most elegant way is to use
.BR PAM (7)
to chown the devices to the user logged in on the console. Another way is to
create some group, chown the special files to that group and put the users which
are allowed to use the framebuffer device into the group. You can also make the
special files world writable, but be aware of the security implications this
has. On a private box it might be fine to handle it this way though.
.P
.BR Fbi
also needs access to the linux console (\fI/dev/ttyN\fP) for sane console switch
handling. That is obviously no problem for console logins, but any kind of a
pseudo tty (xterm, ssh, screen, ...) will \fBnot\fP work.
\#
\#
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR convert (1),
.BR fbset (1),
.BR fc-list (1),
.BR imagemagick (1),
.BR wrjpgcom (1),
.BR fonts-conf (5),
.BR PAM (7)
\#
\#
.SH AUTHOR
Gerd Hoffmann
.BR <gerd@kraxel.org>
\#
\#
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1999-2012 Gerd Hoffmann <gerd@kraxel.org>
.P
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.
.P
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave,
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
